Osd 10346   PR for ONV doc enhancements (#61)
openshift/osd-network-verifier: README_AWS.md

### Table of Contents ###

- [Setup](#setup)
  - [AWS Environment](#aws-environment)
  - [VPC](#vpc)
  - [IAM Permissions](#iam-permissions)
- [Available tools](#available-tools)
  - [1. Egress Verification](#1-egress-verification)
    - [1.1 Usage](#11-usage)
      - [1.1.1 CLI Executable](#111-cli-executable)
      - [1.1.2 Go Implementation Examples](#112-go-implementation-examples)
    - [1.2 Interpreting Output](#12-interpreting-output)
    - [1.3 Workflow](#13-workflow)
  - [2. BYOVPC Configurations Verification](#2-byovpc-configurations-verification)

## Setup ##
### AWS Environment ###
Set up your environment to use the correct credentials for the AWS account for the target cluster. 
- Obtain a valid set of AWS secret and key for the target account.
- Export these AWS credentials:
   ```shell
   export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID)>
   export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
   ```

>   For STS clusters, also:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For STS credentials, also:
```

##### 1.1.1 CLI Executable #####
   1. Ensure correct [environment setup](#setup).

   2. Clone the source:
      ```shell
      git clone git@github.com:openshift/osd-network-verifier.git
      ``` 
   3. Build the cli:
      ```shell
      make build
      ```
      This generates `osd-network-verifier` executable in project root directory. 

   4. Obtain params:
      1. subnet_id: Obtain the subnet id to be verified. 
      2. image_id: Select an optional image id parameter (ami-xxxxxxxxxxxx) to run on ec2 instance. 
      
         You may use the following public image-id:
         ```bash
          resolve:ssm:/aws/service/ami-amazon-linux-latest/amzn2-ami-hvm-x86_64-gp2`
         ```
          If the image id is not provided, it is defaulted to an image id from [AWS account olm-artifacts-template.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/17be7a41036e252d59ab19cc2ad1dcaf265758a2/hack/olm-registry/olm-artifacts-template.yaml#L75),
   for the same region where your subnet is.

   5. Execute:
    
        ```shell        
        ./osd-network-verifier egress \
            --subnet-id <subnet_id> \ 
            --image-id <image_id>

>         ```

Reviewer 2: (optional)I think we can also include an example for egress with just _--region_ and _--subnet-id_ flag which is also an option.
https://github.com/openshift/ops-sop/blob/master/v4/utils/cluster_provisioning_failure#L161

Author: Thanks! I changed this part to show just the required flags, adding a description of optional once. I'll add a new "examples" section to note how to use with different available flags (like --region) in different scenarios.

### Table of Contents ###

- [Setup](#setup)
  - [AWS Environment](#aws-environment)
  - [VPC](#vpc)
  - [IAM Permissions](#iam-permissions)
- [Available tools](#available-tools)
  - [1. Egress Verification](#1-egress-verification)
    - [1.1 Usage](#11-usage)
      - [1.1.1 CLI Executable](#111-cli-executable)
      - [1.1.2 Go Implementation Examples](#112-go-implementation-examples)
    - [1.2 Interpreting Output](#12-interpreting-output)
    - [1.3 Workflow](#13-workflow)
  - [2. BYOVPC Configurations Verification](#2-byovpc-configurations-verification)

## Setup ##
### AWS Environment ###
Set up your environment to use the correct credentials for the AWS account for the target cluster. 
- Obtain a valid set of AWS secret and key for the target account.
- Export these AWS credentials:
   ```shell
   export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID)>
   export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
   ```
  For STS credentials, also:
    ```shell 
    export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=<YOUR_SESSION_TOKEN_STRING> 
    ```
  Export any other AWS environment vars:
    ```shell
    export AWS_REGION=<VPC_AWS_REGION>
    ````
  
### VPC ###

> - Any VPC for a non-STS CCS cluster can be tested using this tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any VPC for a ROSA/OSD CCS cluster can be tested using this tool.
```

- [Setup](#setup)
  - [VPC](#vpc)
  - [AWS Environment](#aws-environment)
  - [IAM Support Role](#iam-support-role)
  - [Build Source](#build-source)
- [Available tools](#available-tools)
  - [1. Egress Verification](#1-egress-verification)
    - [1.1 Usage](#11-usage)
      - [1.1.1 CLI Executable](#111-cli-executable)
      - [1.1.2 AWS Go SDK Implementaiton](#112-aws-go-sdk-implementation)
    - [1.2 Interpreting Output](#12-interpreting-output)
    - [1.3 Workflow](#13-workflow)
  - [2. BYOVPC Configurations Verification](#2-byovpc-configurations-verification)

## Setup ##
### VPC ###
- Any VPC for a non-STS CCS cluster can be tested using this tool.
- You will need to know the following information about the VPC to be verified.
    - subnet IDs
    - AWS region
  
### AWS Environment ###
Set up your environment to use the correct credentials for the AWS account for the target cluster. 
- If this is an existing cluster, use [this SOP](https://github.com/openshift/ops-sop/blob/master/v4/howto/aws/aws.md#via-ocm-the-quickest-way-1) to get AWS credentials.
- If this cluster is not installed yet
  - If cluster is STS, customer should provide credentials for support role

>   - If cluster is non-STS, creds are creaed by AWS account operator on hive shard. Obtain them using [this SOP](https://github.com/openshift/ops-sop/blob/master/v4/howto/aws/aws.md#on-hive-shard).

Author: removed private content for SOP

- Export these credentials and any other AWS defaults in your environment
   ```shell
   export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID)>

>    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<YOUR-AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>

Author: added (for STS)

   ```

    ```shell

>     export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<VPC_AWS_REGION>

Author: Seems like we're using AWS_DEFAULT_REGION https://github.com/openshift/osd-network-verifier/blob/b861c952b4cc8bc8fc41a779c87348ce6b338d29/cmd/egress/cmd.go#L17

>     export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<VPC_AWS_REGION>

Reviewer: Ack, that should be changed in the code then. I'll do it in a separate PR

>     export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<VPC_AWS_REGION>

Author: changed (in readme)

    ````
  
### IAM Support Role ###

> Ensure that the IAM support role policy (default: ManagedOpenShift-Support-Role-Policy) includes the following permissions.

Author: changed

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceStatus",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes",
        "ec2:GetConsoleOutput",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Build Source ###
1. Clone [repo](git@github.com:openshift/osd-network-verifier.git)
2. Build the cli. 
   ```shell
   make build
   ```
   This generates `osd-network-verifier` executable in project root directory.

## Available Tools ##

### 1. Egress Verification ###
#### 1.1 Usage ####
The processes below describe different ways verifying egress requirements on a single subnet. 
In order to verify entire VPC, 
repeat the processes described below for each subnet ID.

##### 1.1.1 CLI Executable #####
   1. From AWS, get the id for the subnet to be tested.
    ```
    export SUBNET_ID=<subnet_id>
    ```
   2. Set the optional image parameter to pass for ec2 instance.
      You may use the following public image-id
   ```
      export IMAGE_ID=resolve:ssm:/aws/service/ami-amazon-linux-latest/amzn2-ami-hvm-x86_64-gp2 

>    ```

Author: updated

    "github.com/openshift/osd-network-verifier/pkg/cloudclient"
)
// build the credentials provider
creds := credentials.NewStaticCredentialsProvider("AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID", "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY", "AWS_SESSION_TOKEN")
region := "us-east-1"

// init a cloudclient
cli, err := cloudclient.NewClient(creds, region)
// ... error checking

// call the validation function and check if it was successful
out := cli.ValidateEgress(context.TODO(), "vpcSubnetID", "cloudImageID", "kmsKeyID", 600)
if !out.IsSuccessful() {
    // Failure
    failures, exceptions, errors := out.Parse()
}
```

##### aws-sdk-go-v1 #####
```go
import (
    "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws/credentials"
    "github.com/openshift/osd-network-verifier/pkg/cloudclient"
)
// build the credentials provider
creds := credentials.NewStaticCredentials("AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID", "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY", "AWS_SESSION_TOKEN")
region := "us-east-1"

// init a cloudclient
cli, err := cloudclient.NewClient(*creds, region)
// ... error checking

out := cli.ValidateEgress(context.TODO(), "vpcSubnetID", "cloudImageID", "kmsKeyID", 600)
if !out.IsSuccessful() {
    // Failure
    failures, exceptions, errors := out.Parse()

> }

Author: moved to go files under examples/

```
#### 1.2 Interpreting Output ###

> (TODO: add errors)

Author: No, that can be WIP

> (TODO: add errors)

Author: Correction: It may be blocked since there's a done criteria for it "SOP describes potential issues that a failure of the egress test may indicate"

#### 1.3 Workflow ####
1. AWS client creates a test ec2 instance in the target vpc/subnet and wait till the instance gets ready
2. The actual network verification is automated by using the `USERDATA` param [available for ec2 instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/user-data.html) which is run by ec2 on the instance on creation. 
The [`USERDATA`](pkg/helpers/config/userdata.yaml) script is in the form of base64-encoded text, and does the following -

>    1. passes default cloud configurations

Author: That was a bit excessive.. removed.

>    2. installs dependencies

Author: added

>    3. runs the [ONV docker image](https://github.com/openshift/osd-network-verifier/tree/main/build) included with this source.

Author: done

      (The image is also published at: https://quay.io/repository/app-sre/osd-network-verifier)

> 3. The entry point of the ONV docker image then executes the main egress verification script

Author: done

### Table of Contents ###

- [Setup](#setup)
  - [VPC](#vpc)
  - [AWS Environment](#aws-environment)
  - [IAM Support Role](#iam-support-role)
- [Available tools](#available-tools)
  - [1. Egress Verification](#1-egress-verification)
    - [1.1 Usage](#11-usage)
      - [1.1.1 CLI Executable](#111-cli-executable)
      - [1.1.2 AWS Go SDK Implementaiton](#112-aws-go-sdk-implementation)
    - [1.2 Interpreting Output](#12-interpreting-output)
    - [1.3 Workflow](#13-workflow)
  - [2. BYOVPC Configurations Verification](#2-byovpc-configurations-verification)

## Setup ##
### VPC ###
- Any VPC for a non-STS CCS cluster can be tested using this tool.
- You will need to know the following information about the VPC to be verified.
    - subnet IDs

>     - AWS region

Reviewer 3: and credentials?

Author: It's the next item in the list, but I switched it to be first to avoid this confusion.

Ensure that the IAM support role policy (default: ManagedOpenShift-Support-Role-Policy) includes the following permissions.
```json
{

>   "Version": "<version>",

Reviewer: This is a specific required string from AWS
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_elements_version.html

Author: done
